---
layout: post
title: "Notes for Prof. Hung-Yi Lee's ML Lecture: Support Vector Machine"
---

## My Intuitive Explanation

The overall computation is equivalent to:

1. transform the features to a high-dimensional (often infinite-dimensional) space.
2. find a plane to separate the 2 classes by the hinge loss.
3. use the plane to classify new data.

with the tricks:

1. By the kernel method, when classifying new data, we calculate the kernel function betwen the new data and all the training data in the original space, so we don't have to perform computations in the high-dimensional space.
2. By the kernal method and the hinge loss, we only have to calculate the kernel product between the new data and only a few data points of the training set near the classification boundary. These training data points are the support vectors.

## Traditional Formulation

### For Separable Class Distributions

For a binary classificaiton problem, we have the function:

$$ y(x) = w^{T} \phi(x) + b \text{, } t_{n} = \begin{cases}
1   & \text{ when } y(x) > 0 \\
-1  & \text{ when } y(x) < 0
\end{cases} $$

We assume the data to be perfectly separable, then

$$ t_{n} y(x_{n}) > 0 $$

To find the plane with maximum margin, we try to find $w, b$ by

$$ arg \max\limits_{w, b} \{\frac{1}{\| w \|} \min\limits_{n} [t_{n} (w^{T}\phi(x_{n}) + b)]  \} $$

then by $w \to \kappa w$ and $b \to \kappa b$, for the points that are closest to the boundary, we can set

$$ t_{n} (w^{T}\phi(x_{n}) + b) = 1$$

then for all points,

$$ t_{n} (w^{T}\phi(x_{n}) + b) \geq 1\text{, } n = 1, \dotsc, N $$

Then the questions is equivalent to 

$$ arg \min\limits_{w, b} \frac{1}{2} \| w \|^2 $$

with constraints

$$ t_{n} (w^{T}\phi(x_{n}) + b) \geq 1\text{, } n = 1, \dotsc, N $$

Then by Lagrange multiplier, we get the Lagrangian

$$ L(w,b,a) = \frac{1}{2} \| w \|^2 - \sum_{n=1}^{N} a_n \{ t_{n} (w^{T}\phi(x_{n}) + b) - 1 \} \\
a_n \geq 0 \text{, } a = (a_1, \dotsc, a_N)^T $$

By optimizing $w$ & $b$ by $0$ gradient, we get

$$
w = \sum_{n=1}^{N} a_n t_n \phi(x_n) \\
0 = \sum_{n=1}^{N} a_n t_n
$$

then we get the dual representation:

$$
\tilde{L} (a) = \sum_{n=1}^{N} a_n - \frac{1}{2} \sum_{n=1}^{N} \sum_{m=1}^{N} a_n a_m t_n t_m k(x_n, x_m)
$$

which subject to

$$ a_n \geq 0 \text{, } \sum_{n=1}^{N} a_n t_n = 0 $$

where $k(x, x') = \phi^T(x)\phi(x')$ is the *kernel function*. Also, by the Lagrange multiplier, the KKT conditions are

$$
a_n \geq 0 \\
t_n y(x_n) - 1 \geq 0 \\
a_n \{ t_n y(x_n) - 1 \} = 0
$$

Now it became a *quadratic programming problem* that we can solve by the established approaches to find $a$.




### For Overlapping Class Distributions





### Binary Classifier

### Multiclass SVM

Although the application of SVMs to multiclass classification problems remains an open issue, in practice the one-versus-the-rest approach is the most widely used in spite of its ad-hoc formula- tion and its practical limitations.

## Prof. Lee's Formulation by the 3 Steps of ML

